- [Instructor] In this video,
we're going to talk about how to plan
for testing service components.
We want to start testing the business logic layer
of a Spring application.
Recall that we are working on a fictitious
eCommerce web application for a flower shop business.
We're going to be adding the first automated test
written for this application.
If your team is deciding to practice test-driven
development, then chances are pretty high
that they're also practicing other habits
that stem from an Agile methodology,
such as writing user stories
to begin planning feature development.
So before we get into writing tests,
let's review some user stories.
One, there's an add contacts feature
that was added to the system in the prior release.
This just allowed a user to create contacts
to their account,
and start an address book feature.
Well, what we're working on is for release two
of the system,
where we're going to take the add contacts feature
a step further,
and we're going to add something called contact occasions.
This allows the user to add birthdates,
or any other special dates,
so that someone can receive flowers on those dates.
Let's revisit our architecture again,
just to show where we are in our testing process.
Right now we're going to start writing tests
just for our Spring Services components.
Why are we beginning with service components?
Because that is usually where some of the most important
business logic is implemented.
So, in terms of priorities,
services are where test coverage is typically
needed the most.
And speaking of priorities,
we should spend some time thinking of our test goals
and objectives.
It helps with overall time management
to spend a little time thinking through
a plan of action
before you go straight to writing test code.
In other words have a specific plan
for how you're going to spend your test time.
First it's just having a broad goal of
adding test coverage to everything.
Not all things are equally important
from a testing perspective.
Be clear on which components need test coverage,
and which features are most in need of that coverage.
For example, you may decide that Happy Path tests
are first priority.
Let's look at the test plan for H and P's
service components.
The plan should include deciding
which type of tests are needed,
and on a per future basis.
The test type you start with could depend on timing
and where you are in the development cycle.
For the H and P application, we will be writing
integration tests, as well as unit tests.
Because the add contacts feature is so subtle
and in production, it's actually a great place
to start writing integration tests.
Not only because it's relatively easy,
but because it's possible.
Every component that needs to be involved
in the integration test
is already mature and settled,
so they are perfect candidates for an integration test,
whereas the new feature,
add contact occasions,
has no code written at all.
So that's a prime candidate for focusing our unit
test efforts.
At some in the development cycle,
it might be a good idea to finish up
the add contact occasions feature
by creating an integration test for it.
But for now, let's get starting writing some tests.